1.43 Use of inferential statistics? 

Inferential statistics are used
a. to describe whether a sample has more females or males.
b. to reduce a data file to easily understood summaries.
c. to make predictions about populations by using sample data.
d. when we can’t use statistical software to analyze data.
e. to predict the sample data we will get when we know the population.
------------
(c) to make predictions about populations by using sample data.
------------

1.44 NYC vs. Upstate significantly different? 
Example 3 mentioned a poll about a potential New York State law on banning plastic bags from grocery stores. When dividing the 929
voters included in the poll by region, the results show that among voters from New York City, 46% supported the ban,
while 52% of voters from upstate New York supported the ban. 
Based on these results, the study authors conclude that a statistically significant difference exists between the proportion of 
voters in favor of banning plastic bags in upstate New York and New York City. This means that

a. in a future referendum about the state law, 6% more voters will support the ban in upstate New York compared to New York City.
b. Differences such as the observed 6 percentage point difference between voters from New York City and
upstate New York are likely to occur when the proportion of supporters is the same in both regions.
c. Differences such as the observed 6 percentage point difference between voters from New York City 
and upstate New York are unlikely to occur when the proportion of supporters is the same in both regions.
d. The margin of error in this study was plus or minus 6 percentage points.
-----------
(c)
--------------

1.45 True or false? In a particular study, you could use descriptive statistics, or you could use inferential statistics,
but you would rarely need to use both.
--------
False. We commonly use both descriptive and inferential statistics in the same study. 
Descriptive statistics summarize the data, while inferential statistics help draw conclusions about the population based on that data.
------

1.46 True or false? The smaller the margin of error, the less
precise the prediction of the population parameter.
-------
False. A smaller margin of error means the prediction is more precise, not less.
































