3.4 Diamonds 

The clarity and cut of a diamond are two of the four C’s of diamond grading. (The other two are color and carat.) For a sample of diamonds, the following table lists the clarity (rated as internally flaw-
less, IF; very very slightly included, VVS; very slightly included, VS; slightly included, SI; and included, I) for the two lowest ratings for cut, which are “good” and “fair.”

The data for this exercise are in the Diamonds file on the book’s website and preloaded in the Explore Categorical Data app, under the second tab titled Two Categorical Variables. 
(The app provides a side-by-side bar chart and computes conditional and marginal proportions automatically.)

             		 Clarity
Cut        IF   VVS   VS   SI   I   Total
Good       2     4    16   55   3     80
Fair       1     3     8   30   2     44
---------------

a. Find the conditional proportions for the five categories of clarity, given cut.

b. Sketch (or access and download via the app) a side-by-side (or stacked) bar graph that compares the two cuts on clarity. Summarize findings in a paragraph.

c. Based on these data, is there evidence of an association between the cuts and clarity? Explain. (Hint: Are the conditional proportions very close across the two cuts?)
-------------------

a. 
        I    IF   SI   VS   VVS Total
Fair   0.05 0.02 0.68 0.18 0.07     1
Good   0.04 0.03 0.69 0.20 0.05     1

b. 
The bar graph shows the distribution of diamond clarity grades across the two lowest cuts: Good and Fair. For both cuts, the most frequent clarity category is SI (Slightly Included), especially prominent in Good cut diamonds. 

The Good cut diamonds also have more overall counts in every clarity level compared to Fair, indicating a larger sample. 

While both cuts follow a similar pattern across clarity grades, the Good cut has a slightly more even distribution, whereas the Fair cut has a sharper drop after the SI category. 

This suggests that diamonds rated Good tend to have slightly better clarity distribution than those rated Fair.

c. There is no strong evidence of an association between cut and clarity.
The conditional proportions of clarity are very similar across the two cuts, which suggests that the distribution of clarity does not vary meaningfully with cut.
This implies cut and clarity are likely independent in this sample.