3.6 Effectiveness of government in preventing terrorism 

In a survey conducted in March 2013 by the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism, 1515 adults were asked about the effectiveness
of the government in preventing terrorism and whether they believe that it could eventually prevent all major terrorist attacks. 

37.06% of the 510 adults who consider the government to be very effective believed that it can eventually prevent all major attacks, while this proportion was 28.36% among those who consider the government
somewhat, not too, or not at all effective in preventing terrorism. The other people surveyed considered that terrorists will always find a way.

a. Identify the response variable, the explanatory variable, and their categories.
b. Construct a contingency table that shows the counts for the different combinations of categories.
c. Use a contingency table to display the percentages for the categories of the response variables, separately for each category of the explanatory variable.
d. Are the percentages reported in part c conditional? Explain.
e. Sketch a graph that compares the responses for each category of the explanatory variable.
f. Compute the difference and the ratio of proportions. Interpret.
g. Give an example of how the results would show that there is no evidence of association between these variables.
--------------

a. Response variable: Belief about preventing all major terrorist attacks
Categories: "Can eventually prevent all major attacks" vs "Terrorists will always find a way"

Explanatory variable: Perceived government effectiveness in preventing terrorism
Categories: "Very effective" vs "Somewhat/not too/not at all effective"

We want to see if people's perception of government effectiveness influences their belief about whether all major terrorist attacks can eventually be prevented.

b. 
Perceived government effectiveness													Belief
										Can eventually prevent all major attacks			Terrorists will always find a way
Very effective											189											321
Somewhat/not too/not at all effective						474											720

c. 
Perceived government effectiveness													Belief
										Can eventually prevent all major attacks			Terrorists will always find a way
Very effective											0.3706										0.6294
Somewhat/not too/not at all effective						0.2836										0.7164

Interpretation: Among those who view the government as very effective, 37.06% believe all major terrorist attacks can eventually be prevented, while 62.94% believe terrorists will always find a way. 
Among those with lower confidence in government effectiveness, only 28.36% believe all attacks can be prevented, while 71.64% believe terrorists will always find a way.

d. Yes, the percentages are conditional. Each percentage represents the proportion of people within a specific effectiveness rating group (the explanatory variable) who hold a particular 
belief about preventing terrorism (the response variable). For example, 37.06% is the conditional proportion of people who believe all attacks can be prevented, given that they consider the government very effective. 
These are conditional on the explanatory variable category.

e. Difference of proportions: 37.06% - 28.36% = 8.7 percentage points
Ratio of proportions: 37.06% รท 28.36% = 1.31
Interpretation: People who view the government as very effective are 8.7 percentage points more likely to believe that all major terrorist attacks can eventually be prevented 
compared to those with lower confidence in government effectiveness. 

Alternatively, those who view the government as very effective are 1.31 times as likely (or 31% more likely) to believe all attacks can be prevented.

g. If there were no association between perceived government effectiveness and belief about preventing terrorism, the proportions would be approximately equal across both groups. 
For example:
Very effective: 32% believe attacks can be prevented
Somewhat/not too/not at all effective: 32% believe attacks can be prevented

In this case, the difference would be near 0 percentage points and the ratio would be approximately 1.0, indicating that perceived government effectiveness does not influence beliefs about preventing terrorism.














